docs(k8s): secure cluster with pn (#1630)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/reference-content/secure-cluster-with-private-network.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Securing a cluster with a regional Private Network
  description: This page explains how to secure a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster with a regional Private Network
content:
  h1: Securing a cluster with a regional Private Network
  paragraph: This page explains how to secure a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster with a regional Private Network
tags: kubernetes kubernetes-kapsule kapsule cluster vpc private-network private network
dates:
  validation: 2023-05-05
  posted: 2023-05-05
categories:
  - kubernetes
---

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [created](/containers/kubernetes/how-to/create-cluster) a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster
</Message>

Scaleway Kubernetes Kapsule provides a managed environment to create, configure and run a cluster of preconfigured machines for containerized applications. This allows you to create Kubernetes clusters without the complexity of managing the infrastructure.

> All new Kubernetes clusters are deployed with a Scaleway regional Private Network. **We recommend migrating existing clusters to a regional Private Network as well, using the Scaleway console.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All new Kubernetes clusters are deployed with a Scaleway [regional Private Network](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/network/vpc/concepts/#regional-private-networks). **We recommend migrating existing clusters to a regional Private Network as well, using the Scaleway console.**
```

Currently, worker nodes are still shipped with public IP addresses.
These IPs are used for outgoing traffic from your nodes towards the Internet only; no services are listening on them by default.
Despite having public IP addresses for limited maintenance and operational reasons, you can be assured that your cluster remains fully secure. Find more details below.

<Lightbox src="kubernetes-kapsule-on-pn-v2.webp" alt="Schema Kubernetes Kapsule on Private Networks" size="large" />

## Why have a Private Network for your Kubernetes Kapsule cluster?

A Private Network brings additional features to your cluster, such as:

> * Implementation of best practices in terms of security: All Scaleway resources to communicate securely (Instances, Load Balancers, Managed Databases), with less surface of attacks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Implementation of best practices in terms of security: all Scaleway resources can communicate securely (Instances, Load Balancers, Managed Databases), with less surface area for attack
```

* Compliance with expectations from the market (enterprise customers)
* Less manual configuration work such as security group configuration, IP range configuration etc.
* Lower latency

> You can create new regional Private Networks via the Scaleway Console and quickly add clusters to existing regional Private Networks using the Scaleway Console. Each cluster is autoconfigured using a /22 IP subnet thanks to Scaleway’s IPAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the Scaleway console to both create new regional Private Networks, and add clusters to existing regional Private Networks. Each cluster is autoconfigured using a /22 IP subnet thanks to Scaleway’s IPAM.
```

## Why do worker nodes still have public IPs?

Public IP addresses are currently required to maintain the administration of your worker nodes and their control plane to ensure the full functionality of your clusters. 

> Do note, however, that incoming traffic on these public IPs is blocked by default thanks to a security group set at DROP ALL, and only outgoing traffic necessary for Kubernetes to run (e.g., apt, Docker image pull, etc.) is allowed. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, incoming traffic on these public IPs is blocked by default thanks to a security group set at DROP ALL, and only outgoing traffic necessary for Kubernetes to run (e.g., apt, Docker image pull, etc.) is allowed. 
```

## Can I use a Public Gateway with my Private Network to exit all outgoing traffic from the nodes?

> At this moment, outgoing traffic is through the public IP of each node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, outgoing traffic is through the public IP of each node.
```

Public Gateway will soon be compatible with IPAM and thus supported by Kapsule in a future release.

## How can I migrate my existing clusters to regional Private Networks?

You can use the Scaleway console to migrate all your previous clusters (recommended).

> 1. In Kubernetes, locate your public clusters in the list (Network column)

Reviewer: I think these steps could be clearer, not sure what is meant by "Network column"?

> 2. Click the clusters name to navigate to your cluster information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the cluster's name to navigate to your cluster information
```

3. Use the recommended migration action in your cluster information, or go to the Private Network tab to start the migration.
    <Message type="note">

>     Migrating an existing cluster is only available for clusters with a Kubernetes version above `v1.22.0`. Also, once a cluster is migrated, you will not be able to rollback this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Migrating an existing cluster is only available for clusters with a Kubernetes version above `v1.22.0`. Not that once a cluster is migrated, you will not be able to roll back this change.
```

    </Message>

What will happen after starting the migration:

1. Your control plane will restart for a first time: the Kubernetes API of your cluster will temporarily be unavailable.
2. Your pools will be upgraded to migrate the nodes into the Private Network. All of your nodes will be rebooted according to the specified Upgrade Policy of your pools.

> 3. Once all your nodes have rebooted, your control-plane will be configured to use the Private Network and restarted: your Load Balancers will be reconfigured and migrated to the Private Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once all your nodes have rebooted, your control plane will be configured to use the Private Network and restarted: your Load Balancers will be reconfigured and migrated to the Private Network.
```

4. The CNI of your cluster will be reconfigured and restarted to use the Private Network.
    <Message type="important">
      During step IV, the Pod network of your cluster will be temporarily unavailable for 1 to 10 minutes as all Pods of the CNI are restarted, depending on the size of your cluster and the CNI you are using.
      Your Pods will be unable to communicate with each other during this step.
    </Message>

> To further improve the security of your Kubernetes cluster, you can configure a Security Group to block inbound traffic on the public network interface of your nodes.

Reviewer: maybe link to how to do this?

However, be careful when updating the Security Group: if you currently use Kubernetes services with NodePorts, need SSH access, or need ICMP access, you must add a rule to allow this traffic.

## Is Kosmos compatible with Private Networks?

Only Kapsule can use a Private Network.
Kosmos uses Kilo as a CNI, which uses Wireguard to create a VPN Mesh between nodes for communication between pods. Any node in Kosmos, either in Scaleway or outside, uses these VPN tunnels to communicate securely by construct.

## What future options will there be for isolation?

> We are currently at the first phase of an isolated Kubernetes infrastructure. In the future, additional features are planned, such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are currently at the first phase of an isolated Kubernetes infrastructure. In the future, additional features are planned, such as:
```

- compatibility with Scaleway Public Gateways, to be used as a single exit point for the cluster
- extended VPC integration of Kubernetes Kapsule, with support of Multi-AZ features.
- Isolation of the control plane on top of your worker nodes

## Will the control plane also be located inside the Private Network?
Currently, only worker nodes are located in the Private Network of your cluster. The communication between the nodes and the control plane uses the Public IP of the node.

## Which IP ranges are used for the Private Network of my cluster?

> We automatically assign a /22 IP subnet from a private network to your cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We automatically assign a /22 IP subnet from a Private Network to your cluster.
```

## Are Managed Databases compatible with Kubernetes Kapsule on Private Network?

Yes they are.
You will have to create a new endpoint on your Database Instance, specifiying an automated configuration of your Private Network with Scaleway IPAM service.
You can find an example below:
```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://api.scaleway.com/rdb/v1/regions/$REGION/instances/$INSTANCE_ID/endpoints \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --header "X-Auth-Token: $SCW_TOKEN" \
  --data '{
	"endpoint_spec": {
		"private_network": {
			"ipam_config": {},
			"private_network_id": "$PRIVATE_NETWORK_ID"
		}
	}
}'
```
Please refer to the [Managed Database for PostgreSQL and MySQL API documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/managed-database-postgre-mysql/#path-endpoints-create-a-new-database-instance-endpoint) for further information.

<Message type="note">
  * This action replaces your current endpoint, which means you might need to update any environment configurations that point to the old endpoint.

>   * This feature is not yet provided in Scaleway Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * This feature is not yet provided in Scaleway console.
```

>   * This feature is not yet provided in Scaleway console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * This feature is not yet provided in the Scaleway console.
```

</Message>

## Are Managed Load Balancers compatible with Kubernetes Kapsule Private Networks?

> Managed Load Balancers support Private Networks with private backends and public Frontends, meaning the traffic is forwarded to your worker nodes through your clusters' Private Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managed Load Balancers support Private Networks with private backends and public frontends, meaning the traffic is forwarded to your worker nodes through your clusters' Private Network.
```
